Broker
======

The Broker is the part of Comet which receives messages from authors and
distributes them to subscribers. It can also subscribe to other brokers and
act upon events received.

Twisted Applications
--------------------

The Comet broker is implemented as a `Twisted application
<http://www.twistedmatrix.com/>`_. This means that it is not invoked directly
on the command line, but rather using the ``twistd`` tool provided as part
of Twisted.

``twistd`` provides a wide range of generic configuration options related to
daemonizing, logging, profiling, and so on. This fall outside the scope of
this documentation, but the interested reader is encouraged to familiarize
themselves with the contents of ``twistd(1)``.

It is worth noting that, by default, processes invoked with ``twistd`` are
immediately daemonized. That is, ``twistd`` is invoked, it returns control to
your shell prompt almost immediately, but Comet is now running in the
background. This is generally very convenient, but sometimes it's useful to
have the application run in the foreground when testing and debugging: to
achieve this, invoke ``twistd -n``.

Invoking Comet
--------------

Specify name of the Twisted application to run after ``twistd`` and its
options. In this case, we run ``comet``, and pass it the ``--help`` option to
provide a brief usage message::

  $ twistd comet --help
  Usage: twistd [options] comet [options]
  Options:
    -r, --receive                   Listen for TCP connections from authors.
    -b, --broadcast                 Re-broadcast VOEvents received.
    -v, --verbose                   Increase verbosity.
    -q, --quiet                     Decrease verbosity.
        --print-event               Enable the print-event plugin.
        --save-event                Enable the save-event plugin.
        --local-ivo=                IVOA identifier for this system (required)
        --eventdb=                  Event database root-directory. [default: system dependent]
        --receive-port=             TCP port for receiving events. [default: 8098]
        --broadcast-port=           TCP port for broadcasting events. [default:
                                    8099]
        --broadcast-test-interval=  Interval between test event brodcasts (in
                                    seconds; 0 to disable). [default: 3600]
        --author-whitelist=         Network to be included in author whitelist.
                                    [default: 0.0.0.0/0]
        --subscriber-whitelist=     Network to be included in subscriber
                                    whitelist. [default: 0.0.0.0/0]
        --remote=                   Remote broadcaster to subscribe to
                                    (host[:port]).
        --filter=                   XPath filter applied to events broadcast by
                                    remote.
        --cmd=                      Spawn external command on event receipt.
        --save-event-directory=     Target directory [default:
                                    current working directory]
        --version                   Display Twisted version and exit.
        --help                      Display this help and exit.

Basic Modes of Operation
++++++++++++++++++++++++

If the ``--receive`` option is supplied, Comet will fulfil the Broker role in
an Author to Broker connection. In other words, it will listen for TCP
connections from remote authors and accept events for distribution. The TCP
port on which Comet will listen may be specified with the ``--receive-port``
option.

If the ``--broadcast`` option is supplied, Comet will listen for Subscribers
to connect and then it will fulfil the Broker role in a Broker to Subscriber
connection with each of the Subscribers. Any VOEvents received (either by
direct connection from authors, or by subscribing to remote brokers) are
rebroadcast to subscribers. The TCP port on which Comet will allow subscribers
to connect may be specified with the ``--broadcast-port`` option.

If one or more ``--remote`` options are supplied, Comet will subscribe to the
remote host specified and fulfil the Subscriber role in the resulting Broker
to Subscriber connection. If just given a hostname Comet will attempt to
subscribe on port 8099. Optionally, a different port may be specified by
appending it to the hostname, separated by a ``:``.

A single Comet daemon will accept any combination of ``--receiver``,
``--broadcast`` and one or more ``--remote`` options and play all of the
specified roles simultaneously. If none of ``--receiver``, ``--broadcast`` or
``--remote`` are supplied, there is no work to be done and Comet will exit
immediately.

Identification
++++++++++++++

Whatever the mode of operation, Comet identifies itself by means of an
*International Virtual Observatory Resource Name* or *IVORN*: see the `VOEvent
standard <http://www.ivoa.net/Documents/VOEvent/index.html>`_ for details. You
should specify some appropriate IVORN for your site using the ``--local-ivo``
option. This should be of the format ``ivo://${organization}/${name}``; for
example, ``ivo://org.transientskp/comet_broker``.

VOEvent Network Maintenance
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In order to prevent looping on the network (ie, two brokers exchanging the
same event ad infinitum), a database of previously seen event is maintained.
This database is written to the filesystem in the location specified by the
``--eventdb`` option (which should specify a pre-existing directory). Events
which are recorded in the database are not forwarded by Comet. This is
important: looping would degrade the quality of the VOEvent network for all
users! Note that events persist in the database for 30 days, after which they
are expired to save space.

Receiver Options
++++++++++++++++

When acting as a receiving broker (with ``--receive``), Comet will only accept
new events for publication from hosts which have been specified as
"whitelisted". Hosts (or, indeed, networks) may be included in the whitelist
using the ``--author-whitelist`` option. This option accepts either `CIDR
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CIDR_notation>`_ or dot-decimal notation
including a subnet mask. For example, ``--author-whitelist 127.0.0.1/32`` and
``--author-whitelist 127.0.0.1/255.255.255.255`` both permit the local host to
submit events to the broker. This option may be specified multiple times and
the results are cumulative. To accept submissions from any host, specify
``--author-whitelist 0.0.0.0/0``; this is the default if no
``--author-whitelist`` option is supplied.

Broadcaster Options
+++++++++++++++++++

By default, Comet will broadcast a content-free test event to all subscribers
every hour. The aim is to help with network debugging. The interval between
test events may be configured using the ``--broadcast-test-interval`` option,
which accepts a value in seconds.  Set it to ``0`` to disable the test
broadcast completely.

The broadcaster supports a similar whitelisting feature to the receiver: in
this case, new subscribers to the broadcast will not be accepted unless their
IP address has been added to the whitelist. This is enabled using the
``--subscriber-whitelist`` option; its semantics are the same as
``--author-whitelist``.

Subscriber Options
++++++++++++++++++

When subscribing to a remote broker (with ``--remote``), one or more filters
may be specified which limit the events which will be received. These filters
are specified with ``--filter``, in the form of `XPath 1.0
<http://www.w3.org/TR/xpath/>`_ expressions. The broker will evaluate the
expression against each event it processes, and only forward the event to the
subscriber if it produces a non-empty result. For more details see the section
on :doc:`filtering </filtering>`.

Common Options
++++++++++++++

Plugins
^^^^^^^

Custom code may be run to perform arbitrary local processing on an event when
it is received. For more details, see the section on :doc:`event handlers
</handlers>`. Plugin actions will be taken whether Comet receives an event
from an author (``--receive``) or an upstream broker (``--remote``). A plugin
is enabled by giving its name as a command line option (``--plugin-name``).
Plugins may also take arguments from the command line. These are given in the
form ``--plugin-name-argument=value``.

Comet ships with two plugins which both serve as examples of how to write
event handlers and which may be useful in their own right. The first simply
writes events to Comet's log as they are received. This is the ``print-event``
plugin: enable it by invoking Comet with the ``--print-event`` option.

The second plugin shipped with Comet is ``save-event``, which writes events to
file. It is enabled with the ``--save-event`` option. By default, events are
written to the default working directory (normally the directory in which you
invoked Comet): this may be customized using the ``--save-event-directory=``
option. The filename under which an event is saved is based on its IVORN, but
modified to avoid characters which are awkard to work with on standard
filesystems.

Spawning External Commands
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Similarly, received events may be sent to one or more external commands for
processing. These are specified using the ``--cmd`` option. They should accept
the event on standard input and perform whatever processing is required before
exiting. The standard output and error from the external process will be
written to Comet's log with level ``DEBUG``. If it returns a value other than
0, it will be logged as a failure.  Note that external commands are run in a
separate thread, so will not block the subscriber from processing new events;
however, the user is nevertheless responsible for ensuring that they terminate
in a timely fashion.

Logging
^^^^^^^

The amount of information Comet writes to its log may be adjusted using the
``--verbose`` and ``--quiet`` options.
